Face Shield
===========

  ------------------------ --------------------------
  **Manufacturer Email**   kay.briggs\@nmcentre.com
  **Date of Packaging**    
  **Customer**             NMC Community
  **Material used**        PTGE and clear PVC
  ------------------------ --------------------------

⚠️ Warnings 
-----------

PLEASE DO NOT OPEN UNTIL 3 DAYS AFTER "DATE OF PACKAGING"

Disclaimer

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, a network of volunteers have
combined efforts to produce homemade face shields using 3D printers and
Laser Cutters. These are not described as personal protective equipment.
We coordinate the distribution of them to frontline staff.

Production
----------

It is intended that these homemade face shields are made to a common
design but they are made out of various materials. In the short time
since it was established on March 24, 2020, the group of volunteers have
taken reasonable steps to ensure the integrity of the face shields being
produced. However, the face shields are not manufactured to, nor meet
any particular industry or medical required standard and are non-CE
marked. NO REPRESENTATION, PROMISE, EXPRESS WARRANTY OR IMPLIED WARRANTY
CONCERNING THE SUITABILITY OF THESE FACE SHIELDS FOR ANY MEDICAL OR
PERSONAL PROTECTION USE INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THEIR
EFFECTIVENESS TO FILTER, BLOCK OR PROTECT AGAINST ANY PATHOGEN OR
PARTICLE, INCLUDING COVID-19.

Use 
---

Recipients of the face shields are responsible for using their own
judgement before deciding to order, receive, distribute and use these
homemade face shields in any setting. Face shields provided are NOT
intended to be used by people that are in contact with patients that
have tested positive for or are suspected to be suffering from COVID-19.
Instead, they should only be used by other frontline staff to ensure the
supply of medical grade, approved PPE devices to staff in contact with
patients with COVID-19.

These face shields are single use only. Discard after use. Do not reuse
or re-sterilise. It is expected that these face shields will be used in
conjunction with a face mask protecting the nose and mouth, in
accordance with relevant guidelines. Face shields are not a replacement
for, and do not negate, the need for users to continue to stringently
follow the recommended hygiene practices or other relevant guidelines.

Recipients of these face shields are required to provide a copy of this
disclaimer to any third party before distributing these face shields.

Feedback
--------

We're doing everything we can to make these products the best they can
be.

Please send your feedback to
**[[covid\@doesliverpool.com]{.underline}](mailto:covid@doesliverpool.com)**
