COVID-19
--------

![Face Visor Design Printed and
Assembled](media/image1.png){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="4.339583333333334in"}

Face Visor Design Printed and Assembled

The 3D Print Club have been monitoring the national (& international)
'maker' community response to the past PPE supply crisis relating to the
COVID-19 pandemic and have followed closely the designs of protective
face visors that [DoESLiverpool](https://doesliverpool.com/) have been
using for their [PPE Manufacturing
effort](https://ppe.doesliverpool.com/).

Early on in the crisis we were passed on a design for a protective face
visor that although well intentioned seemed not fit for purpose.

We wanted to contribute and make our own visors, for use in the NMC day
to day, so initially we looked at the designs that DoES were making,
their community having already gone through lengthy design conversations
and decisions, prototypes, wrong turns, success and failure,
accommodated a range of issues and problems, before settling on a design
they could feasibly and efficiently and safely make.

Their community represents a huge body of amateur and professional
knowledge including the persepectives of NHS staff who, although there
is no official endorsement from NHS England, have vouched for its
usefulness. We think 're-inventing the wheel' ie using a new design will
not help anyone, as well meaning as this may be.

So we've made a donation to the [DoESLiverpool PPE Manufacturing
Project](https://ppe.doesliverpool.com/) and they have provided us with
25 of their face visors which staff are going to use in a deep clean and
preperatoin of the centre for limited re-opening.

Meanwhile we are starting to print and test a design by Maker Mike
Luaderdale and we'll be selling them in the NMC or on request alongwith
a [Surgical Mask Strap Support](#surgical-mask-strap)

  -------------------------------------------------- ------
  Item                                               Cost
  3D Printed Surgical Mask Strap                     £1
  3D Printed Face Visor Frame with 1 acetate sheet   £5
  Extra clean transparent visor acetate sheet        £1
  -------------------------------------------------- ------

Design We Use
-------------

We reviewed this [comprehensive list and
notes](https://github.com/DoESLiverpool/covid19/blob/master/FaceShield.md)
before settling on using [Maker Mike Lauderdale's
Design](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:4253904/) because it's really
easy to print and assemble without needing any additional equipment. It
fits a standard elastic band and A4 180 micron thick Acetate sheets.
We've printed a few and they work really well and are surprisingly
comfortable.

### Surgical Mask Strap

Kay has a [design for a Surgical Mask Strap
Support](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:4202906) that supports long
term face mask use.

Wearing and removing a face mask can be tricky, you can effectively
spray droplets and contaminate yourself and others with the mask
contents if worn carelessly and this looks like it might help keep it
securely and comfortably in position.

Supporting Others
-----------------

There are many ways to support each other in a crisis with or without 3D
printing as many of us at the NMC continue to do, so keep in touch with
all the NMC news and your friends remember all the hard work they are
still doing.

You can still support the [DoES PPE Project
here](https://www.gofundme.com/f/get-visors-into-the-hands-of-healthcare-workers)
but as PPE supply is now more or less getting to the people who need it
most, demand has now slowed down. There are other aid groups out there
of course like [Acorn renters
union](https://acorntheunion.org.uk/corona/) or [West Cheshire Community
Response](https://winsford.gov.uk/3706-2/)

Prepare
-------

Kay Briggs has setup our 3D printer at home so she's now our 3D Printing
hub! She's prepared a clean workspace for making the visors and other 3D
printing projects.

  Item                                         Description                                       source
  -------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Hot soapy water                              For cleaning down once printed                    
  Handwash 99% alcohol                         General hygeine                                   
  A4 Acetate sheets (approx 180micron thick)   Snap fits into visor frame                        [eBay](https://www.ebay.co.uk/itm/Acetate-Sheets-Transparent-Clear-OHP-Craft-Office-Acetate-Film-Assorted-Sizes/131588810542)
  Clean Workspace for printer and assembly     Isolated from people and traffic inside/outside   
  Elastic Bands                                For securing the mask to your forehead            

### Make

We are using PTGE as a material as it's most effective for cleaning and
sterilising because it is less porous than PLA which we normally use.

[Guidance on
printing](https://3dverkstan.se/protective-visor/protective-visor-print-guide/)

Recommended print settings from
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/diegotrap/status/1242182168933269516):

-   Nozzle: 0.4mm to 0.8mm

-   Layer Height : 0.3mm

-   Base and top layers 3

-   Wall thickness 3

-   Infill 20%, triangular

-   No support

-   Print Speed: Operator to decide

#### Disinfect & pack

This is an overall guide to [cleaning from
Prusa](https://help.prusa3d.com/en/article/prusa-face-shield-disinfection_125457)
with an overview of all the cleaning techniques.

Do not use pure alcohol or 99%, part diluted to 75% is much more
affective, allowing the alcohol in solution, to penetrate the cell wall
and lipid layer of the virus and kill it that way. Hot soapy water is
also very affective, although it makes drying more porous materials more
time consuming

FAQ
===

If people have questions please point them to this page or our
[Frequently Asked Questions Page](FAQ.md)

### DoES Designs

For further reference here are some other alternative designs

-   [DoES version of the 3D Verkstan Face Visor Frame
    Design](https://github.com/DoESLiverpool/covid19/blob/master/visor-designs/3d-printed/3DVerkstan/DoES_Verkstan.stl)

This design is from
[3dVerkstan](https://3dverkstan.se/protective-visor/) \* [Verkstan
Acetate Cut Design Europe
A4](https://github.com/DoESLiverpool/covid19/blob/master/visor-designs/3d-printed/3DVerkstan/Template-shield-EUROPE-4hole.pdf)
which can be done by hand with scissors, a scalpel and a standard 4-hole
hole punch with help from this [A4 Cut
Template](https://github.com/DoESLiverpool/covid19/blob/master/visor-designs/visor-templates/covid19 Shield foil -A4  hand cutting template.STL)
